https://www.ibm.com/topics/exploratory-data-analysis
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/what-is-exploratory-data-analysis/


Exploratory data analysis tools
Specific statistical functions and techniques you can perform with EDA tools include:

Clustering and dimension reduction techniques, which help create graphical displays of high-dimensional data containing many variables.
Univariate visualization of each field in the raw dataset, with summary statistics.
Bivariate visualizations and summary statistics that allow you to assess the relationship between each variable in the dataset and the target variable you’re looking at.
Multivariate visualizations, for mapping and understanding interactions between different fields in the data.
K-means Clustering is a clustering method in unsupervised learning where data points are assigned into K groups, i.e. the number of clusters, based on the distance from each group’s centroid. The data points closest to a particular centroid will be clustered under the same category. K-means Clustering is commonly used in market segmentation, pattern recognition, and image compression.
Predictive models, such as linear regression, use statistics and data to predict outcomes.


Types of exploratory data analysis
There are four primary types of EDA:

Univariate non-graphical. This is simplest form of data analysis, where the data being analyzed consists of just one variable. Since it’s a single variable, it doesn’t deal with causes or relationships. The main purpose of univariate analysis is to describe the data and find patterns that exist within it.
Univariate graphical. Non-graphical methods don’t provide a full picture of the data. Graphical methods are therefore required. Common types of univariate graphics include:
Stem-and-leaf plots, which show all data values and the shape of the distribution.
Histograms, a bar plot in which each bar represents the frequency (count) or proportion (count/total count) of cases for a range of values.
Box plots, which graphically depict the five-number summary of minimum, first quartile, median, third quartile, and maximum.
Multivariate nongraphical: Multivariate data arises from more than one variable. Multivariate non-graphical EDA techniques generally show the relationship between two or more variables of the data through cross-tabulation or statistics.
Multivariate graphical: Multivariate data uses graphics to display relationships between two or more sets of data. The most used graphic is a grouped bar plot or bar chart with each group representing one level of one of the variables and each bar within a group representing the levels of the other variable.
Other common types of multivariate graphics include:

Scatter plot, which is used to plot data points on a horizontal and a vertical axis to show how much one variable is affected by another.
Multivariate chart, which is a graphical representation of the relationships between factors and a response.
Run chart, which is a line graph of data plotted over time.
Bubble chart, which is a data visualization that displays multiple circles (bubbles) in a two-dimensional plot.
Heat map, which is a graphical representation of data where values are depicted by color.
